# DocSearchAI

A tool for searching type-doc documentation using natural language. The LLM is currently capable of taking in a singular PDF, which is currently set to be a PDF generated by typedoc.

## Setup instructions

> Note: You will need both Python and NodeJS installed to run this project.

1. There are two seperate .env files you will need to create. One for the frontend code, and one for the backend code.
2. Create an .env file in both the `./frontend` and `./backend` directories and add the following variables:

### Front-end variables

- `VITE_INVOKE_LLM_URL`

This is the URL for the server where the Python backend is hosted.

The dev server uses `http://127.0.0.1:8000` by default.

### Back-end variables

- `GEMINI_API_KEY`

This is the API key that is required for requests to the Gemini and embedding model API.

An API key can be created here: https://aistudio.google.com/app/apikey

> Note: Gemini has a free tier but can only be accessed in limited countries: https://ai.google.dev/gemini-api/docs/available-regions. If it is not available in your region then you will be required to upgrade to the the pay-as-you-go plan.

3. Install the required dependencies:

### Installing dependencies

Dependencies for the front-end and the back-end need to be installed separately.

#### Front-End

- `cd frontend/`
- `npm i`

#### Back-End

- `cd backend/`
- `source .venv/Scripts/activate` (Bash)

> Note: If on Windows Command Prompt you should use the `.venv\Scripts\activate` command instead.

- `pip install -r requirements.txt`

4. The project should now be ready. To run the code see the next section.

## How to run the project

5. Navigate to the `./frontend` directory and run the `npm run dev` command.
6. In a seperate terminal, navigate to the `./backend` directory and run the `fastapi dev main.py` command.
7. You can now navigate to the URL shown in the frontend terminal :D.

## Generating TypeDoc documentation

This project uses TypeDoc for generating documentation. Documentation can be updated by running the `npm run docs` command in the `./frontend` directory.

Documentation can be exported to a pdf by running the `npm run export-docs` command.

## FastAPI documentation

Documentation for all the available FastAPI routes can be found at `<BackendURL>/docs`.
